README.md, before:

Joe's fork of Micropython
=======================
It seems that the Micropython project has bifurcated of late (since about 
2016 as far as I can tell).  There have apparently been personality conflicts
between original and active developers, commercial spin-offs for different
boards or user bases, and lots of developments in the "Real" Python language
as well.

This space focuses on helping me to understand where Micropython is, which
branches/forks/libraries/boards/repositories are usable, and how they compare,
and most importantly, it's a place I use as a source for building Micropython
for my microcontroller boards.

I would rather not take sides among the people or businesses that have brought
Micropython to where it is today.  I have a great deal of respect for those 
who are better programmers than I am, and there has been some amazing work
done here.

The original project README is at [README-orig.md].  Parts are reproduced below:

The MicroPython project
=======================
This is the MicroPython project, which aims to put an implementation
of Python 3.x on microcontrollers and small embedded systems.

WARNING: this project is in beta stage and is subject to changes of the
code-base, including project-wide name changes and API changes.

MicroPython implements the entire Python 3.4 syntax (including exceptions,
`with`, `yield from`, etc., and additionally `async`/`await` keywords from
Python 3.5). The following core datatypes are provided: `str` (including
basic Unicode support), `bytes`, `bytearray`, `tuple`, `list`, `dict`, `set`,
`frozenset`, `array.array`, `collections.namedtuple`, classes and instances.
Builtin modules include `sys`, `time`, and `struct`, etc. Select ports have
support for `_thread` module (multithreading). Note that only a subset of
Python 3 functionality is implemented for the data types and modules.

MicroPython can execute scripts in textual source form or from precompiled
bytecode, in both cases either from an on-device filesystem or "frozen" into
the MicroPython executable.

Major components in this repository:
- py/ -- the core Python implementation, including compiler, runtime, and
  core library.
- mpy-cross/ -- the MicroPython cross-compiler which is used to turn scripts
  into precompiled bytecode.
- ports/unix/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Unix.
- ports/stm32/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the PyBoard and similar
  STM32 boards (using ST's Cube HAL drivers).
- ports/minimal/ -- a minimal MicroPython port. Start with this if you want
  to port MicroPython to another microcontroller.
- tests/ -- test framework and test scripts.
- docs/ -- user documentation in Sphinx reStructuredText format. Rendered
  HTML documentation is available at http://docs.micropython.org (be sure
  to select needed board/port at the bottom left corner).

Additional components:
- ports/bare-arm/ -- a bare minimum version of MicroPython for ARM MCUs. Used
  mostly to control code size.
- ports/teensy/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the Teensy 3.1
  (preliminary but functional).
- ports/pic16bit/ -- a version of MicroPython for 16-bit PIC microcontrollers.
- ports/cc3200/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the CC3200 from TI.
- ports/esp8266/ -- an experimental port for ESP8266 WiFi modules.
- extmod/ -- additional (non-core) modules implemented in C.
- tools/ -- various tools, including the pyboard.py module.
- examples/ -- a few example Python scripts.

The subdirectories above may include READMEs with additional info.

"make" is used to build the components, or "gmake" on BSD-based systems.
You will also need bash, gcc, and Python (at least 2.7 or 3.3).

The Unix version
----------------

The "unix" port requires a standard Unix environment with gcc and GNU make.
x86 and x64 architectures are supported (i.e. x86 32- and 64-bit), as well
as ARM and MIPS. Making full-featured port to another architecture requires
writing some assembly code for the exception handling and garbage collection.
Alternatively, fallback implementation based on setjmp/longjmp can be used.

To build (see section below for required dependencies):

    $ git submodule update --init
    $ cd ports/unix
    $ make axtls
    $ make

Then to give it a try:

    $ ./micropython
    >>> list(5 * x + y for x in range(10) for y in [4, 2, 1])

Use `CTRL-D` (i.e. EOF) to exit the shell.
Learn about command-line options (in particular, how to increase heap size
which may be needed for larger applications):

    $ ./micropython --help

Run complete testsuite:

    $ make test

Unix version comes with a builtin package manager called upip, e.g.:

    $ ./micropython -m upip install micropython-pystone
    $ ./micropython -m pystone

Browse available modules on
[PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi?%3Aaction=search&term=micropython).
Standard library modules come from
[micropython-lib](https://github.com/micropython/micropython-lib) project.

External dependencies
---------------------

Building MicroPython ports may require some dependencies installed.

For Unix port, `libffi` library and `pkg-config` tool are required. On
Debian/Ubuntu/Mint derivative Linux distros, install `build-essential`
(includes toolchain and make), `libffi-dev`, and `pkg-config` packages.

Other dependencies can be built together with MicroPython. This may
be required to enable extra features or capabilities, and in recent
versions of MicroPython, these may be enabled by default. To build
these additional dependencies, first fetch git submodules for them:

    $ git submodule update --init

Use the same command to get the latest versions of dependencies, as
they are updated from time to time. After that, in the port directory
(e.g. `ports/unix/`), execute:

    $ make deplibs

This will build all available dependencies (regardless whether they
are used or not). If you intend to build MicroPython with additional
options (like cross-compiling), the same set of options should be passed
to `make deplibs`. To actually enable/disable use of dependencies, edit
`ports/unix/mpconfigport.mk` file, which has inline descriptions of the options.
For example, to build SSL module (required for `upip` tool described above,
and so enabled by dfeault), `MICROPY_PY_USSL` should be set to 1.

For some ports, building required dependences is transparent, and happens
automatically. They still need to be fetched with the git submodule command
above.

The STM32 version
-----------------

The "stm32" port requires an ARM compiler, arm-none-eabi-gcc, and associated
bin-utils.  For those using Arch Linux, you need arm-none-eabi-binutils,
arm-none-eabi-gcc and arm-none-eabi-newlib packages.  Otherwise, try here:
https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded

To build:

    $ git submodule update --init
    $ cd ports/stm32
    $ make

You then need to get your board into DFU mode.  On the pyboard, connect the
3V3 pin to the P1/DFU pin with a wire (on PYBv1.0 they are next to each other
on the bottom left of the board, second row from the bottom).

Then to flash the code via USB DFU to your device:

    $ make deploy

This will use the included `tools/pydfu.py` script.  If flashing the firmware
does not work it may be because you don't have the correct permissions, and
need to use `sudo make deploy`.
See the README.md file in the ports/stm32/ directory for further details.

Contributing
------------

I welcome contributions, and I'm certain that I will make mistakes that do
not originate from the upstream sources.  I welcome your contributions.

Note that MicroPython is licenced under the MIT license, and all contributions
should follow this license.

Commit message:

Identify upstream and other sources

README.md, after:

Joe's fork of Micropython
=======================
It seems that the Micropython project has bifurcated of late (since about 
2016 as far as I can tell).  There have apparently been personality conflicts
between original and active developers, commercial spin-offs for different
boards or user bases, and lots of developments in the "Real" Python language
as well.

This space focuses on helping me to understand where Micropython is, which
branches/forks/libraries/boards/repositories are usable, and how they compare,
and most importantly, it's a place I use as a source for building Micropython
for my microcontroller boards.

I would rather not take sides among the people or businesses that have brought
Micropython to where it is today.  I have a great deal of respect for those 
who are better programmers than I am, and there has been some amazing work
done here.

Sources
=======================
https://github.com/micropython/micropython - The original upstream
https://github.com/pfalcon/micropython - Includes some library features not
available in upstream, but introduces some changes
https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython - Flavor by Adafruit, easier to use
with their boards

The original project README is at [README-orig.md].  Parts are reproduced below:

The MicroPython project
=======================
This is the MicroPython project, which aims to put an implementation
of Python 3.x on microcontrollers and small embedded systems.

WARNING: this project is in beta stage and is subject to changes of the
code-base, including project-wide name changes and API changes.

MicroPython implements the entire Python 3.4 syntax (including exceptions,
`with`, `yield from`, etc., and additionally `async`/`await` keywords from
Python 3.5). The following core datatypes are provided: `str` (including
basic Unicode support), `bytes`, `bytearray`, `tuple`, `list`, `dict`, `set`,
`frozenset`, `array.array`, `collections.namedtuple`, classes and instances.
Builtin modules include `sys`, `time`, and `struct`, etc. Select ports have
support for `_thread` module (multithreading). Note that only a subset of
Python 3 functionality is implemented for the data types and modules.

MicroPython can execute scripts in textual source form or from precompiled
bytecode, in both cases either from an on-device filesystem or "frozen" into
the MicroPython executable.

Major components in this repository:
- py/ -- the core Python implementation, including compiler, runtime, and
  core library.
- mpy-cross/ -- the MicroPython cross-compiler which is used to turn scripts
  into precompiled bytecode.
- ports/unix/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Unix.
- ports/stm32/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the PyBoard and similar
  STM32 boards (using ST's Cube HAL drivers).
- ports/minimal/ -- a minimal MicroPython port. Start with this if you want
  to port MicroPython to another microcontroller.
- tests/ -- test framework and test scripts.
- docs/ -- user documentation in Sphinx reStructuredText format. Rendered
  HTML documentation is available at http://docs.micropython.org (be sure
  to select needed board/port at the bottom left corner).

Additional components:
- ports/bare-arm/ -- a bare minimum version of MicroPython for ARM MCUs. Used
  mostly to control code size.
- ports/teensy/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the Teensy 3.1
  (preliminary but functional).
- ports/pic16bit/ -- a version of MicroPython for 16-bit PIC microcontrollers.
- ports/cc3200/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the CC3200 from TI.
- ports/esp8266/ -- an experimental port for ESP8266 WiFi modules.
- extmod/ -- additional (non-core) modules implemented in C.
- tools/ -- various tools, including the pyboard.py module.
- examples/ -- a few example Python scripts.

The subdirectories above may include READMEs with additional info.

"make" is used to build the components, or "gmake" on BSD-based systems.
You will also need bash, gcc, and Python (at least 2.7 or 3.3).

The Unix version
----------------

The "unix" port requires a standard Unix environment with gcc and GNU make.
x86 and x64 architectures are supported (i.e. x86 32- and 64-bit), as well
as ARM and MIPS. Making full-featured port to another architecture requires
writing some assembly code for the exception handling and garbage collection.
Alternatively, fallback implementation based on setjmp/longjmp can be used.

To build (see section below for required dependencies):

    $ git submodule update --init
    $ cd ports/unix
    $ make axtls
    $ make

Then to give it a try:

    $ ./micropython
    >>> list(5 * x + y for x in range(10) for y in [4, 2, 1])

Use `CTRL-D` (i.e. EOF) to exit the shell.
Learn about command-line options (in particular, how to increase heap size
which may be needed for larger applications):

    $ ./micropython --help

Run complete testsuite:

    $ make test

Unix version comes with a builtin package manager called upip, e.g.:

    $ ./micropython -m upip install micropython-pystone
    $ ./micropython -m pystone

Browse available modules on
[PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi?%3Aaction=search&term=micropython).
Standard library modules come from
[micropython-lib](https://github.com/micropython/micropython-lib) project.

External dependencies
---------------------

Building MicroPython ports may require some dependencies installed.

For Unix port, `libffi` library and `pkg-config` tool are required. On
Debian/Ubuntu/Mint derivative Linux distros, install `build-essential`
(includes toolchain and make), `libffi-dev`, and `pkg-config` packages.

Other dependencies can be built together with MicroPython. This may
be required to enable extra features or capabilities, and in recent
versions of MicroPython, these may be enabled by default. To build
these additional dependencies, first fetch git submodules for them:

    $ git submodule update --init

Use the same command to get the latest versions of dependencies, as
they are updated from time to time. After that, in the port directory
(e.g. `ports/unix/`), execute:

    $ make deplibs

This will build all available dependencies (regardless whether they
are used or not). If you intend to build MicroPython with additional
options (like cross-compiling), the same set of options should be passed
to `make deplibs`. To actually enable/disable use of dependencies, edit
`ports/unix/mpconfigport.mk` file, which has inline descriptions of the options.
For example, to build SSL module (required for `upip` tool described above,
and so enabled by dfeault), `MICROPY_PY_USSL` should be set to 1.

For some ports, building required dependences is transparent, and happens
automatically. They still need to be fetched with the git submodule command
above.

The STM32 version
-----------------

The "stm32" port requires an ARM compiler, arm-none-eabi-gcc, and associated
bin-utils.  For those using Arch Linux, you need arm-none-eabi-binutils,
arm-none-eabi-gcc and arm-none-eabi-newlib packages.  Otherwise, try here:
https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded

To build:

    $ git submodule update --init
    $ cd ports/stm32
    $ make

You then need to get your board into DFU mode.  On the pyboard, connect the
3V3 pin to the P1/DFU pin with a wire (on PYBv1.0 they are next to each other
on the bottom left of the board, second row from the bottom).

Then to flash the code via USB DFU to your device:

    $ make deploy

This will use the included `tools/pydfu.py` script.  If flashing the firmware
does not work it may be because you don't have the correct permissions, and
need to use `sudo make deploy`.
See the README.md file in the ports/stm32/ directory for further details.

Contributing
------------

I welcome contributions, and I'm certain that I will make mistakes that do
not originate from the upstream sources.  I welcome your contributions.

Note that MicroPython is licenced under the MIT license, and all contributions
should follow this license.
